# Tools
This script is written to run the folllowing chimera detection tools:
1- ChimeraSlayer
2- Perseus
3- VSEARCH
4- UCHIME
5- UCHIME3

# Overview

This script uses USEARCH and Mothur tools to find chimeric sequences in FASTA files. It processes input FASTA files, updates headers with size information, performs chimera detection, and aligns sequences using Mothur.


# Prerequisites

1. Make sure that Mothur and USEARCH are installed on your system.
2. Set the paths to the Mothur and USEARCH executables in the script.
3. Make sure you have the Silva database file for reference sequences.
4. Specify the path to the Silva database file in the script or provide it as a command-line argument.

# Understanding Mock Numbers

The script's numbers relate to particular mock datasets. You will need to adjust the script's numbers if you wish to use it with different mock datasets.

#  Excute the script

1. Open a terminal.
2. Navigate to the directory where the script is located.
3. Run the script with the necessary arguments provided, such as the directories' paths that hold the count tables and FASTA files, the Mothur and USEARCH executable paths, and the Silva database file path.

# Usage Example:
## custom path
Users can run the script with the desired paths like the following:
```
bash script.sh path_to_fasta_file path_to_count_table_file path_to_usearch path_to_mothur path_to_silva

```

# Review Output
Check the output files generated by the script for chimera detection results.
   
